docs: document flash wear (#193)
mendersoftware/mender-mcu: docs/flashwear.md

## Flash wear estimation

- $N$: Number of deployments during the lifetime of a device.
- $F$: Probability of failure during a deployment.
- $W$: Maximum number of state transitions, defined by `MENDER_MAX_STATE_DATA_STORE_COUNT`.
- $B$: Number of writes for a successful deployment.
- $K$: Total number of writes to the flash.

We write to the flash in two places:

> 1. during initialization if there are no authentication keys in the store

Reviewer: We need to mention that this is an opt-in feature. Maybe:

_during first boot if the user did not provide a callback to get the keys, Mender will autogenerate one and write it into the store_

2. during a deployment to keep track of the deployment data, the artifact being installed and the deployment logs

Most of the flash wear will occur during a deployment. The deployment data, which -- amongst others -- contains the current state during

> a deployment, is written between each state transition. We have to this to be able to keep track of the deployment. When `MENDER_DEPLOYMENT_LOGS`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a deployment, is written between each state transition. This is what allows Mender to be robust and do atomic updates. When `MENDER_DEPLOYMENT_LOGS`
```

> a deployment, is written between each state transition. We have to this to be able to keep track of the deployment. When `MENDER_DEPLOYMENT_LOGS`
> is enabled, we also write the deployment logs to the flash; these are error or warning logs that have occured during a deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a deployment, is written between each state transition. We have to this to be able to keep track of the deployment. Unless `MENDER_DEPLOYMENT_LOGS`
is disabled, we also write the deployment logs to the flash; these are error or warning logs that have occured during a deployment.
```

:point_up: opt-out feature

> is enabled, we also write the deployment logs to the flash; these are error or warning logs that have occured during a deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is enabled, we also write the deployment logs to the flash; these are error or warning logs that have occurred during a deployment.
```

> On a successful deployment we store the provides of the deployment and the artifact name of the artifact that was installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On a successful deployment we update local provides database with the meta-data from the Artifact that was installed, combining provides, Artifact name and clears provides.
```

Based on numbers seen in production, we can expect a 5% failure rate for deployments. If we factor in the estimated failure percentage, we
can roughly estimate the expected amount of writes during the lifetime of a device:

$K = N \times ( (W \times F ) + (B \times (1 - F)))$

If we plot in the following values:
- $N = 100$
- $F = 0.05$
- $W = 28$ (the default value of `MENDER_MAX_STATE_DATA_STORE_COUNT`)
- $B = 8$ (the amount of writes for a successful deployment with zephyr-image update module)

we get an estimated $K = 900$ writes to the flash during the lifetime of a device.

The equation aims at creating an upper estimate; estimating the exact number of writes during a deployment is next to impossible due to the
unpredictability of the errors and warnings that may occur. However, we can still be fairly sure that the number of writes will be lower than
the estimate, as its based on the maximum number of state transitions during a deployment. The equation does _not_ take the deployment logs
directly into account, but considering the low probability of any failed deployment reaching the maximum state count, we can be rather confident

> in the fact that the total number of writes will fall within the estimate.

Reviewer 2: I think it would be nice to add a final note based on Josef's point -- that the number of erased sectors, which physical sectors are used, wear-leveling, etc. depend on the low-level implementation of the API we rely on (e.g. NVS on Zephyr).

Author: Should be done now
